# Bhavesh-suthar 
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
    <title>Music</title>
</head>
<body>
    <h2>Music</h2>
    <hr>
    <b>Music</b>
<section><p>is generally defined as the art of arranging sound to create some combination of form, harmony, melody, rhythm or otherwise expressive content. <sup>[1][2][3]</sup> Definitions of music vary depending on culture,<sup>[4]</sup> though it is an aspect of all human societies, a cultural universal.<sup>[5]</sup> While scholars agree that music is defined by a few specific elements, there is no consensus on their precise <sup>[6]</sup>The creation of music is commonly divided into musical composition, musical improvisation, and musical performance,<sup>[7]</sup> though the topic itself extends into academic disciplines, criticism, philosophy, and psychology. Music may be performed or improvised using a vast range of instruments, including the human voice.</p></section>

<section><p> In some musical contexts, a performance or composition may be to some extent improvised. For instance, in Hindustani classical music, the performer plays spontaneously while following a partially defined structure and using characteristic motifs. In modal jazz the performers may take turns leading and responding, while sharing a changing set of notes. In a free jazz context, there may be no structure whatsoever, with each performer acting at their discretion. Music may be deliberately composed to be unperformable, or agglomerated electronically from many performances. Music is played in public and private areas, highlighted at events such as festivals, rock concerts, and orchestra performance, and heard incidentally as part of a score or soundtrack to a film, TV show, opera, or video game. Musical playback is the primary function of an MP3 player or CD player and a universal feature of radios and smartphones.</p></section>

<section><p>Music often plays a key role in social activities, religious rituals, rite of passage ceremonies, celebrations, and cultural activities. The music industry includes songwriters, performers, sound engineers, producers, tour organizers, distributors of instruments, accessories, and sheet music. Compositions, performances, and recordings are assessed and evaluated by music critics, music journalists, and music scholars, as well as amateurs.</p></section>

<h2>Etymology and terminology</h2>
<section><p>The modern English word 'music' came into use in the 1630s. <sup>[8]</sup> It is derived from a long line of successive precursors: the Old English 'musike' of the mid-13th century; the Old French musique of the 12th century; and the Latin mūsica.<sup>[9][10][n 1]</sup> The Latin word itself derives from the Ancient Greek mousiké (technē)—μουσική (τέχνη)—literally meaning "(art) of the Muses". <sup>[9][n 2]</sup> The Muses were nine deities in Ancient Greek mythology who presided over the arts and sciences. <sup>[13][14]</sup> They were included in tales by the earliest Western authors, Homer and Hesiod, <sup>[15]</sup> and eventually came to be associated with music specifically. <sup>[14]</sup> Over time, Polyhymnia would reside over music more prominently than the other muses. <sup>[11]</sup>The Latin word musica was also the originator for both the Spanish música and French musique via spelling and linguistic adjustment, though other European terms were probably loanwords, including the Italian musica, German Musik, Dutch muziek, Norwegian musikk, Polish muzyka and Russian muzïka.<sup>[14]</sup>
    The modern Western world usually defines music as an all-encompassing term, used to describe diverse genres, styles and traditions. <sup>[16]</sup> This is not the case worldwide, and languages such as <strong>modern Indonesian (musik) and Shona (musakazo) </strong>have recently adopted words to reflect this universal conception, as they did not have words that fit exactly the Western scope. <sup>[14]</sup> In East Asia, neither Japan nor China have a single word which encompasses music in a broad sense, but culturally often regard music in such a fashion. <sup>[17]</sup> The closest word to mean music in Chinese, yue, shares a character with le, meaning joy, and <em>originally referred to all the arts before</em> its narrowing in meaning. <sup>[17]</sup> Africa is too diverse to make firm generalizations, but the musicologist <a href="somesource.com">J. H. Kwabena Nketia</a> has emphasized African music's often inseparable connection to dance and speech in general. <sup>[18]</sup> Some African cultures, such as the Songye people of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Tiv people of Nigeria, have a strong and broad conception of 'music' but no corresponding word in their native languages. <sup>[18]</sup> Other words commonly translated as 'music' often have more specific meanings in their respective cultures: the Hindi word for music, sangita, properly refers to art music, <sup>[19]</sup> while the many Indigenous languages of the Americas have words for music that refer specifically to song but describe instrumental music regardless. <sup>[20]</sup> Though the Arabic musiqi can refer to all music, it is usually used for instrumental and metric music, while khandan identifies vocal and improvised music. <sup>[21]</sup></p></section>

    <h2>Origins and prehistory</h2>

    <p>It is often debated as to what extent the origins of music will ever be understood,<sup>[22]</sup> and there are many competing theories that aim to explain it.<sup>[23]</sup> Many scholars highlight a relationship between the origin of music and the origin of language, and there is disagreement surrounding whether music developed before, after, or simultaneously with language.<sup>[24]</sup> A similar source of contention surrounds whether music was the intentional result of natural selection or was a byproduct spandrel of evolution.<sup>[24]</sup> The earliest influential theory was proposed by Charles Darwin in 1871, who stated that music arose as a form of sexual selection, perhaps via mating calls.<sup>[25]</sup> Darwin's original perspective has been heavily criticized for its inconsistencies with other sexual selection methods,<sup>[26]</sup> though many scholars in the 21st century have developed and promoted the theory.<sup>[27]</sup> Other theories include that music arose to assist in organizing labor, improving long-distance communication, benefiting communication with the 
    divine, assisting in community cohesion or as a defense to scare off predators.<sup>[28]</sup></p>
    
    <p>Prehistoric music can only be theorized based on findings from paleolithic archaeology sites. Flutes are often discovered, carved from bones in which lateral holes have been pierced; these are thought to have been blown at one end like the Japanese shakuhachi.[citation needed] The Divje Babe flute, carved from a cave bear femur, is thought to be at least 40,000 years old, though there is considerable debate surrounding whether it is truly a musical instrument or an object formed by animals.<sup>[29]</sup> Instruments such as the seven-holed flute and various types of stringed instruments, such as the Ravanahatha, have been recovered from the Indus Valley civilization archaeological sites.<sup>[30]</sup></p>

    <p>India has one of the oldest musical traditions in the world—references to Indian classical music (marga) are found in the Vedas, ancient scriptures of the Hindu tradition.<sup>[31]</sup></p>

    <p>The earliest and largest collection of prehistoric musical instruments was found in China and dates back to between 7000 and 6600 BCE. <sup>[32]</sup></p>
